---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-02-21T08:10:27.016Z'
dateModified: '2016-02-21T08:09:12.306Z'
title: ''
author: []
sourcePath: _posts/2016-02-21-198b3696-4dd1-4d47-8af2-88057d590f5b.md
published: true
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
url: 198b3696-4dd1-4d47-8af2-88057d590f5b/index.html
_type: Article

---
Our lives, our past, is a
thread from the tapestry that we are woven from, the roots we have grown from.
Many times we may discover parts of our past we may be ashamed of, afraid of,
or perhaps even angered by; but ultimately all of it is what made us who we
are. It is to us then, to look upon our past with the unflinching eye and draw
from it inspiration and strength, regardless of the trials and tribulations
found there. 

For every moment is a
moment to learn more, grow more, and in the end, become more. We are
evolutionary in nature, ever changing, and dynamic; but just as we can draw
upon the past for strength, so too, can we allow it to become our weakness. The
choice, then, is in recognizing the fact that it is a choice, and you are
ultimately the driver of your own life's story.

But every story needs a
starting place though, a beginning. Allow
me if you will to paint for you, mine; a setting of the stage of sorts, a
framing of reference. I have had my own
malady playing for me its tune of discord for most of my life; the violence of that
night, the night of my first memory, seems only fitting.

It was to set the tone for the rest of my
childhood.

The first cord of discord to
play for me was of the shouts and shatters in the other room, as my mother and
father screamed and threw things at one another.

I think I was three years old at the time, if
not a little closer to four.

Even the
sky shed its tears that night and did violence, as the peals of thunder and
flashes of lightning broke through the arguments in the other room.

The lights had gone out, and my brother and
sister and I all lay huddled in bed, terrified of the night, the darkness, the
yelling, the lightning.

But, you know, I
don't remember any tears or crying. 

We
must have been so used to it by then.

Our parents didn't survive as a couple much longer, instead becoming two
entities separate and distinct; divorced.

Malady, Melody; Violence,

_pain, suffering_

.

I have often used those words when I have
talked about my life. 

As if the melody
that plays in my background, that song that plays for us its sweetest of notes,
leaves a bittersweet taste on my mouth, and a memory that stays with me to this
day reminds me of the theme that was always present in my life:

_Shink, _

the
sound of glass just as it breaks splices the air, and in its wake the silence
is deafening.

My brother and I had been
playing, roughhousing, and he accidently broke the window in our bedroom.

It was as if everything in the room had
caught its breath at once, waiting, knowing what was coming, as it had come
hundreds of times before.

The door burst
open and my father filled it, looking as if anger turned flesh.

The haze of so long, so often, sinks in, and
your words blur.

I don't remember what
you said that day. 

I do remember your
use of good ole fashioned 'round and 'round though; as your large meaty hands
grab onto my hair and lift me to standing, and the swinging of your board; an
inch thick, and carved with hearts to show your "love" for me.

I remember that though, I remember it brought
back and forth until you swung it so hard, so often, that it broke upon
me.

_I
was going to learn_

... I was... going to learn.

The sobs, the tears, as you reached for your belt, leather this time;
the slap of it across my back with your firm grip on my hair holding me up;
over, and over again until you were tired, and I?

I was reduced to laughter over the absurdity
of it all.

That must have been a trip,
to have me laughing after you just beat me, couldn't have that could we? 

I remember, the metal belt coming out that
day, chain linked and heavy...

When I look back on those
times, those memories; I am still grateful.

I mean, I was still luckier than most, at least I had a roof over my
head and food in my belly, at least I was never sent to the hospital.

Many people who grow up in violent homes, in
turn lead violent lives; and it could have gone so much different for me.

I am one of the least violent people I know,
and I have used my past as a sort of mirror often; one to reflect upon,
providing me with that sense of perspective I need to make sure that I am
better for it.

I whole heartedly
believe, that were it not for my speckled past, were it not for my patron muse
playing her sickly sweet maladies for me.

I would not have been able to become who I am today; it was that mixture
of just right that forced me to one day face my own anger, and tame it.

It was that mixture of just right that I
needed it to be, in order to become who I am.

I have seen it before, how
the anger or hatred can take root in a person, ever so slowly consuming them.
It is as if they think struggling against their past will change things somehow.

Unable to bare the burdens of their memories,
I have seen people bury themselves in drink; "

_lost 'n de sauce_

" they called it. Well they called it that for as
long as they could still be coherent anyway; until they had drunk themselves so
senseless they didn't have to remember anymore, choosing to pass life by in an
endless haze of drugs and alcohol instead.

I have seen it fracture and break the mind of others, sacrificing their
own sanity in order to cope with the burdens that weigh upon them.

I have met my fair share of these people, the
broken, the ones mutilated by society and discarded.

Very few ever find a way to claw their way
out once they start spiraling downward.

My brother was like this. 

He
turns twenty nine on his next birthday, and he has spent more time in one
detention center or another; from juvie, to jail, to prison; than he has out of
it.

And, unfortunately, my sister has
not fared much better either; managing to stay mostly clear of jail except for
drug use and illegal prostitution. 

It's
safe to say, that in my family, I am the black sheep; and in this case that is
a good thing.

We all find our
individual methods of coping eventually, with the daemons of our past, even if
that way is self-destructive in nature.

Mother, father, brother, sister; all caught in that downward spiral; so...
how did I manage; how did I manage to be the one to claw my way free?

I mean, I had the same past as my brother and
sister.

Moving every year, sometimes twice
a year, as my father dodged both my mother and the law; causing us to be perpetually
the new kids, always outsiders.

We had
the same family outings, as father took us to the various city dumpsters to dig
for cans; to provide him with the spare change he needed for booze and drugs,
those sweet nectars food stamps would not buy. 

We shared the same events, the same
experiences, when we lived with my father.

The only difference being that I happened to take my turn more often for
being the eldest.

So how did we turn out
so differently?

I went through a sort of
metamorphosis in my youth; I was just as bad as my brother and sister ever
were, as we drifted from one bad place to the next.

I too was violent and ruthless, a caustic
reaction to the many bullies one faces always being an outsider, contained only
because of the lack of numbers to support me.

There was one event however, that finally woke me up.

My mother, though she had her own failings,
and the men she allowed into our lives were often times no better than my
father, had herself never struck me.

So
when I was fifteen years of age, and she had had enough of me taking my anger
out on my brother through violence; she threatened to call the police on me the
next time it happened, and I took it seriously.

Some part of me didn't want to become part of that cycle, some part of
me needed to figure out how to adapt to life, figure out how to live and
function in society; and it was that part that finally motivated me to make the
choice to change.

Change is a choice
however, whether one acknowledges it actively or not.

Vibing off of the hatred present in me, I
could have chosen to blame life, blame circumstance, blame my past; I could
have... but I didn't.

The desire to live,
and thrive in this environment had too sweet a call for me.

So I did what I needed too, I turned
cold.

I froze the currents of the ocean
I was drowning in, so that I might find purchase to pull my head above the
water finally.

If the hatred itself was
consuming me, if the heat of anger kept providing fuel for these actions, than
I needed them to dissipate before I could see things clearly.

I entered a state of being akin to death, so
I could pull myself up and claw my way to the surface for breath.

You remember those whom I told you about that
fractured their sanity in order to cope?

I haven't only met ones like that; I was one such as that.

I had to gut myself and sow those pieces back
together properly before I could function; and piece by piece, I did stich
myself back again.

But it was only
possible because I recognized the need, and chose to do it.

When you are forced to
critically examine your life, to look back upon it with that unflinching eye;
you are forced into making a choice.

"Do
I blame all that has happened to me, for my current circumstances?

Or do I instead, take that wheel and steer, accepting
with it the acknowledgement that I, me, myself, am the sole driver of my
life.

I am completely responsible for my
own life, independent of any previous or current circumstances that have
happened or are currently happening to me."

It is the difference between a reactive life and a proactive one, the
difference between one's past becoming a source of strength and inspiration
regardless of the shades and colors it took, or reactively allowing it to drag
you down, weigh you down, and drown you under its own currents.

In order to do this well
and truly, to take full responsibility and mastery over your own life, to be
the navigator instead of letting the currents catch and crush you; some things
need to happen first.

This is no self
help guide, and the road I took lasted 3 years of heavy self-work, and 12 years
of continuing down the road that led me to; but one element is pretty key and
universal.

One must learn to divest the
experiences of one's past and/or one's current circumstance, and rob them of
their claim to you.

If you still harbor
hatred, anger, and resentment towards your "father" he has claim to you.

And, I use the term "father" here loosely, it
represents any aspect of one's past or present that one feels strongly
about.

This strong emotion causes one to
be reactive in nature.

All events must
eventually be just events; so that a degree of resilience, of strength, is
gained from them.

I could have never turned
serene eyes, calm eyes, upon my past, and found there the same sources of inspiration
that I do now, if I did not first rob it of its claim to me.

Looking at the beatings, and violence, and
general lack of actual parenting; and taking from that a desire to actually
study what parenting is, with curiosity and determination; there is no heat in
that.

Looking back on how moving every
year has improved me and my character, lending me resilience and adaptability;
there is no heat in that.

Looking back
on our family outings into the trash cans of the city, and taking from it
humility and the knowledge that I am not above anything, improving once again adaptability
and survivability; there is no heat in that.

All aspects of my past, contribute to my current thriving, every
experience a font of knowledge, understanding, and strength. 

So to you who find
yourself drifting, those of you who desperately wish to gain control once
again; to you, the broken and discarded:

Take your wheel and steer.

Let
the fire and heat of your past be that crucible that fuels your own
metamorphosis.

Let your soul be
transformed in the forge of pain and suffering, but remember this.

Eventually it must cool, eventually you must
temper; eventually you must find your peace, calm your waters, and create your
own footholds in this ocean that tries to drown you; and think on this: "

_It is to us then, to look upon our past with
the unflinching eye, and draw from it inspiration and strength; regardless of
the trials and tribulations found there. For every moment is a moment to learn
more, grow more, and in the end, become more._

"

Reflections composition:

During the course of composing this essay, I
found the process to be enjoyable, but straining.

I have written few mandatory essays, and even
fewer still for a college level course; so I am sure this will be eye opening
for me.

I found the easiest part to be
free writing, both for the initial brainstorming (prewriting), and then again
for the initial rough draft.

Both
outlining and refining my ideas and sentence structure I have found to be of
equal difficulty.

The outlining, because
I am just not used to composing my thoughts that way, or at least capturing
them on paper.

The refining and
revising, because that process is always so much more the difficult than
initial composing; looking for errors and hearing how the words sound as they
are read or said, that is oftentimes where things get overlooked.

Reflections revisions: As
I said in the reflections portion of the composition phase, I have always found
the revision process the hardest. Although the fact that I see the word both
there and here just goes to show that I see revision is an ongoing process. Like
is said in our lecture videos there is always room for improvement.

My actual understanding of grammar comes from
a practical usage rather than an educated usage. That is to say, I know the
purpose of a comma is to break up the sentence and make it more legible,
readable, and digestible for the reader. However, I have a tendency and desire
to place one wherever I would pause naturally, or wherever I would pause for
effect as well. And then, because I do use a text-to-speech program to hear my
writing said back to me, I do not always catch my grammatical errors because I
am hearing it exactly the way I wanted it to be read. I guess there is a
trade-off to be found in that, because it does help tremendously and refining
sentence structure. Hearing something said back to you and actually listening,
allows one to hear that inconsistency, between what they thought they put down
on the paper and what they actually wrote.